README.md, before:

# Penguin2D

Penguin2D is a lightweight and modern game framework built with C++ and SDL3, designed to help developers create simple and fun 2D games. By wrapping SDL3's C functionality into modern C++ constructs, Penguin2D ensures efficient memory management, enhanced safety, and developer-friendly APIs.

## Current Features
Penguin2D provides the following capabilities to game developers:

### Rendering
- **2D Rendering**: Render basic shapes like rectangles, circles, ellipses, lines, and points using the `PenguinRenderer` and `PenguinWindow` classes. These classes manage SDL resources safely with smart pointers, ensuring automatic cleanup.

### Game Loop
- **Customizable Game Loop**:
  - `init()`: Load assets and initialize game objects.
  - `update(delta_time)`: Core game logic (e.g., movement, collisions).
  - `draw(delta_time)`: Render objects onto the screen.
  - `quit()`: Clean up resources on exit.

### Game Objects
- **Vector2**: A utility class for representing 2D positions or directions.
- **Rect2**: A rectangle composed of a `Vector2` for position and another `Vector2` for size.
- **Colour**: A simple RGBA color representation, mapping directly to SDL's color values.

### Event Handling
- **Keyboard Input**:
  - Track key press and release states using a custom keyboard input system.
  - Easily check if specific keys are pressed or released via `PenguinKey`.
- **Event System**:
  - Built with callback functions, allowing modular handling of different types of events. Currently supports input events, with the framework designed to support other event types (e.g., window events, display events) in future updates.

### Fonts (Experimental)
- **Font Rendering**:
  - Integrates the SDL_ttf library for basic text rendering via `PenguinFont` and `PenguinText`.

### Error Handling
- **Custom Exception Class**:
  - Wraps SDL3 functions to throw exceptions when errors occur, improving readability and debugging.

## Current Limitations
- Only input events are fully implemented in the event-handling system; other event types will be added in future iterations.
- Font / text management needs reworking to fit within the game loop; this may require having some kind of system for managing game content.

## Getting Started
### Prerequisites
- A C++ compiler supporting C++17 or later.
- <a href="https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL">SDL3</a> and <a href="https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL_ttf">SDL_ttf</a> libraries installed on your system.
- CMake for building the project.

### Building the Framework
1. Clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/penguin2d.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
```
cd penguin2d
```

3. Build the framework using CMake:
```
mkdir build && cd build  
cmake ..  
make
```
 > **Note**: if using Visual Studio, the framework will be built automatically when you run the project.

## Example Usage

Here's how to use Penguin2D to create a simple game.

### Define a Custom Game Class

```cpp
#define game.hpp
#include "penguin_game.hpp"

using namespace Penguin2D;

class MyGame : public PenguinGame {
public:
    void init() override {
        // TODO: Add your own initialization logic.
    }

    void update() override {
        // TODO: Add your own update logic.
    }

    void draw() override {
        // Create a Rect2 object.
        Rect2<float>rect(Vector2<float>(100.0, 100.0), Vector2<float>(100.0, 100.0));

        // Render a rect with a white outline onto the screen.
        renderer.clear();
        renderer.draw_rect(rect, Colours::WHITE);
        renderer.present();

        // TODO: Add your own draw logic.
    }

    void quit() override {
        // TODO: Add your own quit logic.
    }
};
```

### Run the Game

Don't forget to add your defined header in the penguin_2d.hpp / or penguin_2d.cpp file!

```cpp
#include "game.hpp"

int main() {
    MyGame game;
    game.run();
    return 0;
}
```

## Roadmap
### Planned Features
- Expand rendering capabilities to include textures and sprites.
- Add delta time support, allowing frame-independent movement and animations.
- Eapand the event system by supporting additional SDL3 event types, such as window and display events.
- Enhanced font management by refactoring the current PenguinText class to be used without needing the text engine.
- Streamline loading and managing textures, sounds, and other assets.
- Simplify game development by eliminating the need to modify the main function when deriving from PenguinGame, streamlining the setup process
- Add support for Dear ImGui to enable in-game development tools such as debugging overlays and real-time property editing.
- Add mouse and joystick input event handling to support a wider range of input devices.
- Provide more utility classes and tools to streamline 2D game development.

Commit message:

Updated README.md to add experimental framerate support.

README.md, after:

# Penguin2D

Penguin2D is a lightweight and modern game framework built with C++ and SDL3, designed to help developers create simple and fun 2D games. By wrapping SDL3's C functionality into modern C++ constructs, Penguin2D ensures efficient memory management, enhanced safety, and developer-friendly APIs.

## Current Features
Penguin2D provides the following capabilities to game developers:

### Rendering
- **2D Rendering**: Render basic shapes like rectangles, circles, ellipses, lines, and points using the `PenguinRenderer` and `PenguinWindow` classes. These classes manage SDL resources safely with smart pointers, ensuring automatic cleanup.

### Game Loop
- **Customizable Game Loop**:
  - `init()`: Load assets and initialize game objects.
  - `update(delta_time)`: Core game logic (e.g., movement, collisions).
  - `draw(alpha)`: Render objects onto the screen.
  - `quit()`: Clean up resources on exit.
  - **Experimental Framerate Support**:
    - Implemented fixed time step for updates, ensuring consistent game logic execution.
    - Added extrapolated state rendering for smoother visuals, with an `alpha` variable in place for potential linear interpolation in future updates.

### Game Objects
- **Vector2**: A utility class for representing 2D positions or directions.
- **Rect2**: A rectangle composed of a `Vector2` for position and another `Vector2` for size.
- **Colour**: A simple RGBA color representation, mapping directly to SDL's color values.

### Event Handling
- **Keyboard Input**:
  - Track key press and release states using a custom keyboard input system.
  - Easily check if specific keys are pressed or released via `PenguinKey`.
- **Event System**:
  - Built with callback functions, allowing modular handling of different types of events. Currently supports input events, with the framework designed to support other event types (e.g., window events, display events) in future updates.

### Fonts (Experimental)
- **Font Rendering**:
  - Integrates the SDL_ttf library for basic text rendering via `PenguinFont` and `PenguinText`.

### Error Handling
- **Custom Exception Class**:
  - Wraps SDL3 functions to throw exceptions when errors occur, improving readability and debugging.

## Current Limitations
- Only input events are fully implemented in the event-handling system; other event types will be added in future iterations.
- Font / text management needs reworking to fit within the game loop; this may require having some kind of system for managing game content.

## Getting Started
### Prerequisites
- A C++ compiler supporting C++17 or later.
- <a href="https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL">SDL3</a> and <a href="https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL_ttf">SDL_ttf</a> libraries installed on your system.
- CMake for building the project.

### Building the Framework
1. Clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/penguin2d.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
```
cd penguin2d
```

3. Build the framework using CMake:
```
mkdir build && cd build  
cmake ..  
make
```
 > **Note**: if using Visual Studio, the framework will be built automatically when you run the project.

## Example Usage

Here's how to use Penguin2D to create a simple game.

### Define a Custom Game Class

```cpp
#define game.hpp
#include "penguin_game.hpp"

using namespace Penguin2D;

class MyGame : public PenguinGame {
public:
    void init() override {
        // TODO: Add your own initialization logic.
    }

    void update() override {
        // TODO: Add your own update logic.
    }

    void draw() override {
        // Create a Rect2 object.
        Rect2<float>rect(Vector2<float>(100.0, 100.0), Vector2<float>(100.0, 100.0));

        // Render a rect with a white outline onto the screen.
        renderer.clear();
        renderer.draw_rect(rect, Colours::WHITE);
        renderer.present();

        // TODO: Add your own draw logic.
    }

    void quit() override {
        // TODO: Add your own quit logic.
    }
};
```

### Run the Game

Don't forget to add your defined header in the penguin_2d.hpp / or penguin_2d.cpp file!

```cpp
#include "game.hpp"

int main() {
    MyGame game;
    game.run();
    return 0;
}
```

## Roadmap
### Planned Features
- Expand rendering capabilities to include textures and sprites.
- Add delta time support, allowing frame-independent movement and animations.
- Eapand the event system by supporting additional SDL3 event types, such as window and display events.
- Enhanced font management by refactoring the current PenguinText class to be used without needing the text engine.
- Streamline loading and managing textures, sounds, and other assets.
- Simplify game development by eliminating the need to modify the main function when deriving from PenguinGame, streamlining the setup process
- Add support for Dear ImGui to enable in-game development tools such as debugging overlays and real-time property editing.
- Add mouse and joystick input event handling to support a wider range of input devices.
- Provide more utility classes and tools to streamline 2D game development.
